Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
What are they doing?
It's a game.
They stand with a big stick.
see how to lay the long cord.
and where to stand
the little sticks.
Why do they do it here?
If my father came down
from the mountains.
he would see how it is.
The deer and elk stay
wide of the valley now.
To hunt them.
we must follow west
where K'uu-ch'ish hunts.
or east where there are Pima.
And fight our neighbors
in places sacred to them.
All for fear of a few
tents at the river.
Pionsenay...
what did you hunt?
We can't eat that.
I shouldn't see the Mimbreños
of the plains where I go.
but now I have.
I saw one of these men
hunted and killed
for taking a deer.
from where he shouldn't be.
We saw him killed.
beneath us. over a deer.
My family is well provided
for in the high places.
We aren't hungry.
We don't live in fear.
Pionsenay grew impatient watching
the white-eyes on the plains.
Now he has brought
them into my home.
Do you see this?
This is what I brought.
They are no more danger to you
than the ones
who lost them. at the river.
The men are gone. I see that.
But where they've been.
their sons will follow.
And when they are able.
the sons will hunt after you.
And they will hunt
after all the People.
not knowing which of us you are.
It will be the same for
them. as well as their sons.
But they will not find me asleep
in the mountains like my father.
who was once a great war-chief.
but who has grown old.
Then you will leave here.
Yes. I leave this place
where the People
are too frightened
to sing for me.
This. too. was in my dream.
You will go and wait for
the white-eyes on the plain
and you will not sleep.
You who've made these
people your enemy.
You will fight them for
as long as you are able.
and still they will come.
And when you wish to hide
the high places will
no longer hide you.
Then you'll see the
white-eyes I see.
And you will know
why I don't sing for
your victory today.
Now they can choose.
who are free to go as they will.
I have no more to tell them.
I take this.
so it won't disturb the
sleep of an old man.
Follow it out some.
See if they stay grouped.
or if any cut back.
My sister is not
the same person.
She doesn't have the
man for her home.
whom she loved
before she was born.
There's no more father
for her daughters.
They'll have a father.
They'll come with us.
Why would anyone
want to go with you?
Will the white-eyes
from the river
come to us. now?
No
The people are safe here.
But more white-eyes
will come to the river.
That is the old man's dream.
What is your dream. Taklishim?
I don't dream about this.
They have come and put
their sticks in our way.
and it's our bad luck
they've done this.
That's all I know.
It's bad luck.
If he goes. I go with him.
Come here.
You listened to what was said.
Did you understand?
Good.
I'm glad my son
knows who he is.
It has told me
where ponies of mine were
that were stolen.
You can speak to it
when there's trouble.
I think... I will see you again.
And what is there for you?
I don't need the
gift my brother has.
You give me enough.
I don't follow Pionsenay.
I'll follow you.
You're all right.
Stay still.
This is a game.
Go outside.
Don't move.
They're almost done.
What are you doing?
You're too far.
Tarak!
You're too far. Tarak!
You're too far. Tarak.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-